Organizing Tests
================

One of the goals of PHPUnit is that tests should be composable: we want
to be able to run any number or combination of tests together, for
instance all tests for the whole project, or the tests for all classes
of a component that is part of the project, or just the tests for a
single class.

PHPUnit supports different ways of organizing tests and composing them
into a test suite. This chapter shows the most commonly used approaches.

Composing a Test Suite Using the Filesystem
-------------------------------------------

Probably the easiest way to compose a test suite is to keep all test
case source files in a test directory. PHPUnit can automatically
discover and run the tests by recursively traversing the test directory.

Lets take a look at the test suite of the
[sebastianbergmann/money](http://github.com/sebastianbergmann/money/)
library. Looking at this project's directory structure, we see that the
test case classes in the `tests` directory mirror the package and class
structure of the System Under Test (SUT) in the `src` directory:

    src                                 tests
    `-- Currency.php                    `-- CurrencyTest.php
    `-- IntlFormatter.php               `-- IntlFormatterTest.php
    `-- Money.php                       `-- MoneyTest.php
    `-- autoload.php

To run all tests for the library we need to point the PHPUnit
command-line test runner to the test directory:

$ phpunit --bootstrap src/autoload.php tests PHPUnit .0 by Sebastian
Bergmann and contributors.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Time: 636 ms, Memory: 3.50Mb

OK (33 tests, 52 assertions)

Note

If you point the PHPUnit command-line test runner to a directory it will
look for `*Test.php` files.

To run only the tests that are declared in the `CurrencyTest` test case
class in `tests/CurrencyTest.php` we can use the following command:

$ phpunit --bootstrap src/autoload.php tests/CurrencyTest.php PHPUnit .0
by Sebastian Bergmann and contributors.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Time: 280 ms, Memory: 2.75Mb

OK (8 tests, 8 assertions)

For more fine-grained control of which tests to run we can use the
`--filter` option:

$ phpunit --bootstrap src/autoload.php --filter
testObjectCanBeConstructedForValidConstructorArgument tests PHPUnit .0
by Sebastian Bergmann and contributors.

Time: 167 ms, Memory: 3.00Mb

OK (2 test, 2 assertions)

Note

A drawback of this approach is that we have no control over the order in
which the tests are run. This can lead to problems with regard to test
dependencies, see `writing-tests-for-phpunit.test-dependencies`. In the
next section you will see how you can make the test execution order
explicit by using the XML configuration file.

Composing a Test Suite Using XML Configuration
----------------------------------------------

PHPUnit's XML configuration file (`appendixes.configuration`) can also
be used to compose a test suite.
`organizing-tests.xml-configuration.examples.phpunit.xml` shows a
minimal `phpunit.xml` file that will add all `*Test` classes that are
found in `*Test.php` files when the `tests` directory is recursively
traversed.

    <phpunit bootstrap="src/autoload.php">
      <testsuites>
        <testsuite name="money">
          <directory>tests</directory>
        </testsuite>
      </testsuites>
    </phpunit>

To run the test suite, use the the `--testsuite` option:

$ phpunit --bootstrap src/autoload.php --testsuite money PHPUnit .0 by
Sebastian Bergmann and contributors.

Time: 167 ms, Memory: 3.00Mb

OK (2 test, 2 assertions)

If `phpunit.xml` or `phpunit.xml.dist` (in that order) exist in the
current working directory and `--configuration` is *not* used, the
configuration will be automatically read from that file.

The order in which tests are executed can be made explicit:

    <phpunit bootstrap="src/autoload.php">
      <testsuites>
        <testsuite name="money">
          <file>tests/IntlFormatterTest.php</file>
          <file>tests/MoneyTest.php</file>
          <file>tests/CurrencyTest.php</file>
        </testsuite>
      </testsuites>
    </phpunit>
